TIMES FOODRECIPESDAAL BATI CHURMA
Daal Bati Churma Recipe
by TNNUpdated : Apr 16, 2020, 14:18 IST
Rate
 Comments (0)
Facebook
Twitter
Pinit
Daal Bati Churma
Total Time1hPrep Time30 mCalories651
Bookmark
Add To Collection
A fresh, warm bowl of Dal Bati Churma on a winter day is nothing less than a blessing. This traditional Rajasthani delight is famous all over the world for all the right reasons. Dal Bati Churma is one of the oldest and most successful food combinations that Rajasthani cuisine has introduced to us. Technically, all three dishes are very different from each other but when combined, they give us a perfect thali or a meal that requires no other dish to complete. The Bati is traditionally made on a choolha (earthen stove) by putting up a wired stand and roasting it on fire directly. With time and technology, we are now capable of roasting it in the oven. However, the earthy flavour of the dish is something that you will miss for sure when roasted in the oven. The Dal is made with a combination of three different lentils and is cooked on low flame for a long period so that the flavour seeps in well. The Dal is either poured over the Bati or is dipped in it to make it softer and tastier. The Bati is served with dollops of ghee poured over it to provide an ultimate nutritious dish. While Dal Baati seems to be the perfect filling lunch for you, the Churma will satisfy your cravings for something sweet. We generally crave for a sweet dish after a hearty meal, and this acts as a wonderful accompaniment with it. You can prepare Dal Baati Churma recipe in an hour and can relish the same for both lunch and dinner. The Baatis taste best when some ghee is poured over them. To begin, follow our step-by-step recipe below!

Read more
Ingredients of Daal Bati Churma

6 Servings
1 1/2 cup whole wheat flour
1 cup ghee
1 teaspoon carom seeds
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
100 gm urad dal
1 onion
1 inch ginger
1 bay leaf
1 cinnamon stick
1 teaspoon garam masala powder
1 teaspoon cumin seeds
1 cup semolina
salt as required
1/2 cup powdered jaggery
100 gm chana dal
100 gm green moong dal
2 green chilli
1 teaspoon turmeric
2 tomato
10 sprigs coriander leaves
7 cloves garlic
2 dry red chili


How to make Daal Bati Churma
Step 1 Procedure to make Baati
Take wheat flour and semolina in a bowl and add salt, baking soda and carom seeds to it. Add some water and knead a stiff dough and let it rest for 20 minutes. Knead it again after 20 minutes until a smooth texture is obtained. Make around 12-15 balls out of it and preheat the oven at 180 degrees. Put the balls in the oven and bake for 20-30 minutes until golden brown from all sides.

Step 2 Procedure to make Churma
Now that we have batis ready, we can prepare churma using them. Take 4 of the roasted batis and put them in a mixer along with jaggery. Grind the mix until a powdered form is obtained.

Step 3 Procedure to make Dal
Add all the dals in a pressure cooker along with salt, red chilli powder, onions, tomatoes, cinnamon stick, ginger, garlic, bay leaf, turmeric and green chilli and 2 large cups of water. Cover and let it cook at high flame for 2 whistles and for 25 minutes on low flame.

Step 4 Tadka for the dal
In a small frying pan, add some ghee and add some cumin seeds once the ghee is hot. Add in the 2 dry red chillies once the cumin seeds start to splutter. Your Dal Bati Churma is ready to be served!